README.md, before:

# Millistream.NET
![Build Status Badge](https://bit.ly/2ENttLt) [![NuGet Badge](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Millistream.Streaming.svg)](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Millistream.Streaming/)

An unofficial .NET Standard wrapper for Millistream's low-latency, high-throughput and high-availability C/C++ streaming API that can be used to subscribe to streaming real-time or delayed financial data.
## Installation
Millistream.NET is distributed via [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Millistream.Streaming). The native and wrapped API can be downloaded from [Millistream's anonymous FTP server](https://bit.ly/2LOXHf5). Binaries are available for Windows, Linux and OS X. They come in both 32- and 64-bit versions and should work on both little- and big-endian systems. Please refer to [the official documentation](https://bit.ly/2LOYjkT) for more information about the wrapped API itself. The NuGet package does not include any native assemblies. You will have to download and install these separately.
 
On Windows you download and run an [.exe from the FTP server](https://bit.ly/2N96qh2) that will install the native `libmdf` core library along pre-built binaries of [zlib](http://zlib.net) and [OpenSSL](http://openssl.org/) (`libmdf` links against these) to `%windir%\System32`.
 
On Linux, the native API and the dependent libraries are available through your distribution repository. Below is an example of how to install everything needed using the `apt-get` command line tool on Ubuntu.

    sudo wget "https://packages.millistream.com/apt/sources.list.d/`lsb_release -cs`.list" -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/millistream.list 
    wget -q "https://packages.millistream.com/D2FCCE35.gpg" -O- | sudo apt-key add - 
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt-get install libmdf

Instructions on how to install the API on other supported distributions can be found on the [FTP server](https://bit.ly/2wD2omK). You may also want to take a look at the [YAML build pipeline](https://github.com/mgnsm/Millistream.NET/blob/master/Build/azure-pipelines.yml). It installs the native binaries and runs integration tests against them on macOS, Ubuntu and Windows using the Microsoft-hosted agents in Azure Pipelines.
## Basic example
Once you have installed the native `libmdf` library on your computer, you can then [install](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/consume-packages/ways-to-install-a-package) Millistream.NET into your project using NuGet and use it in your application. Below is a basic example of how to use the .NET API to connect to a server and subscribe to some streaming data:

```cs
using System;
using Millistream.Streaming;

namespace ConsoleApp
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            const string Host = "HOST";
            const string Username = "YOUR_USERNAME";
            const string Password = "YOUR_PASSWORD";

            //1. Create an instance of the DataFeed class.
            using (DataFeed dataFeed = new DataFeed())
            {
                //2. Hook up an event handler to the ConnectionStatusChanged event.
                dataFeed.ConnectionStatusChanged += OnConnectionStatusChanged;
                //3. Subscribe to the Data observable.
                dataFeed.Data.Subscribe(new Observer(dataFeed));
                //4. Call the Connect method to connect to the feed and authenticate.
                if (dataFeed.Connect(Host, Username, Password))
                {
                    //5. Issue a subscription request and wait for data.
                    dataFeed.Request(new SubscribeMessage(
                        RequestType.MDF_RT_FULL, // <- The type of request. Full (image+streaming) in this case.
                        new RequestClass[1] { RequestClass.MDF_RC_QUOTE }) //<- What kind of data to request. 
                                                                           //   Quotes in this case.
                    {
                        InstrumentReferences = new ulong[1] { 772 }, //<- What instrument identifier(s) the 
                                                                     //   request is for. 772 is the unique 
                                                                     //   identifier for Ericsson B on Nasdaq OMX 
                                                                     //   Stockholm.
                    });
                }
                else
                {
                    Console.WriteLine("Failed to connect to the data feed.");
                }

                //prevent the app from terminating until you press a key
                Console.ReadLine();
            }
        }

        static void OnConnectionStatusChanged(object sender,
            ConnectionStatusChangedEventArgs e) =>
            Console.WriteLine($"{DateTime.Now.ToShortTimeString()} - " +
                $"Connection Status: {e.ConnectionStatus}");
    }

    class Observer : IObserver<ResponseMessage>
    {
        private readonly IDataFeed _dataFeed;

        public Observer(IDataFeed dataFeed) => _dataFeed = dataFeed ?? 
            throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(dataFeed));

        public void OnNext(ResponseMessage message)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"{DateTime.Now.ToShortTimeString()} - " +
                $"Received a {message.MessageReference} message with the following fields:");
            foreach (var field in message.Fields)
#if NET_CORE
                Console.WriteLine($"{field.Key}: {Encoding.UTF8.GetString(field.Value.Span)}");
#else
                Console.WriteLine($"{field.Key}: {Encoding.UTF8.GetString(field.Value.ToArray())}");
#endif
            _dataFeed.Recycle(message);
        }

        public void OnCompleted() { }

        public void OnError(Exception exception) => Console.WriteLine(exception.Message);
    }
}
```

Commit message:

***NO_CI***Introduced Millistream.Streaming.DataTypes.

README.md, after:

# Millistream.NET

An unofficial .NET wrapper for Millistream's low-latency, high-throughput and high-availability C/C++ streaming API that can be used to subscribe to streaming real-time or delayed financial data.

| Package | Build Status | NuGet  |
| :------------ |-------------| -------------|
| Millistream.Streaming | ![Build Status Badge](https://bit.ly/3eeOGKP) | [![NuGet Badge](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Millistream.Streaming.svg)](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Millistream.Streaming/) |
| Millistream.Streaming.DataTypes | ![Build Status Badge](https://bit.ly/2yyIxds) | [![NuGet Badge](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Millistream.Streaming.DataTypes.svg)](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Millistream.Streaming.DataTypes/) |

## Installation
Millistream.NET is distributed via [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Millistream.Streaming). The native and wrapped API can be downloaded from [Millistream's anonymous FTP server](https://bit.ly/2LOXHf5). Binaries are available for Windows, Linux and OS X. They come in both 32- and 64-bit versions and should work on both little- and big-endian systems. Please refer to [the official documentation](https://bit.ly/2LOYjkT) for more information about the wrapped API itself. The NuGet package does not include any native assemblies. You will have to download and install these separately.
 
On Windows you download and run an [.exe from the FTP server](https://bit.ly/2N96qh2) that will install the native `libmdf` core library along pre-built binaries of [zlib](http://zlib.net) and [OpenSSL](http://openssl.org/) (`libmdf` links against these) to `%windir%\System32`.
 
On Linux, the native API and the dependent libraries are available through your distribution repository. Below is an example of how to install everything needed using the `apt-get` command line tool on Ubuntu.

    sudo wget "https://packages.millistream.com/apt/sources.list.d/`lsb_release -cs`.list" -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/millistream.list 
    wget -q "https://packages.millistream.com/D2FCCE35.gpg" -O- | sudo apt-key add - 
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt-get install libmdf

Instructions on how to install the API on other supported distributions can be found on the [FTP server](https://bit.ly/2wD2omK). You may also want to take a look at the [YAML build pipeline](https://github.com/mgnsm/Millistream.NET/blob/master/Build/Millistream.Streaming/ci-pipeline.yml) in this repository. It installs the native binaries and runs integration tests against them on macOS, Ubuntu and Windows using the Microsoft-hosted agents in Azure Pipelines.
## Basic example
Once you have installed the native `libmdf` library on your computer, you can then [install](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/consume-packages/ways-to-install-a-package) Millistream.NET into your project using NuGet and use it in your application. Below is a basic example of how to use the .NET API to connect to a server and subscribe to some streaming data:

```cs
using System;
using Millistream.Streaming;

namespace ConsoleApp
{
    class Program
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            const string Host = "HOST";
            const string Username = "YOUR_USERNAME";
            const string Password = "YOUR_PASSWORD";

            //1. Create an instance of the DataFeed class.
            using (DataFeed dataFeed = new DataFeed())
            {
                //2. Hook up an event handler to the ConnectionStatusChanged event.
                dataFeed.ConnectionStatusChanged += OnConnectionStatusChanged;
                //3. Subscribe to the Data observable.
                dataFeed.Data.Subscribe(new Observer(dataFeed));
                //4. Call the Connect method to connect to the feed and authenticate.
                if (dataFeed.Connect(Host, Username, Password))
                {
                    //5. Issue a subscription request and wait for data.
                    dataFeed.Request(new SubscribeMessage(
                        RequestType.MDF_RT_FULL, // <- The type of request. Full (image+streaming) in this case.
                        new RequestClass[1] { RequestClass.MDF_RC_QUOTE }) //<- What kind of data to request. 
                                                                           //   Quotes in this case.
                    {
                        InstrumentReferences = new ulong[1] { 772 }, //<- What instrument identifier(s) the 
                                                                     //   request is for. 772 is the unique 
                                                                     //   identifier for Ericsson B on Nasdaq OMX 
                                                                     //   Stockholm.
                    });
                }
                else
                {
                    Console.WriteLine("Failed to connect to the data feed.");
                }

                //prevent the app from terminating until you press a key
                Console.ReadLine();
            }
        }

        static void OnConnectionStatusChanged(object sender,
            ConnectionStatusChangedEventArgs e) =>
            Console.WriteLine($"{DateTime.Now.ToShortTimeString()} - " +
                $"Connection Status: {e.ConnectionStatus}");
    }

    class Observer : IObserver<ResponseMessage>
    {
        private readonly IDataFeed _dataFeed;

        public Observer(IDataFeed dataFeed) => _dataFeed = dataFeed ?? 
            throw new ArgumentNullException(nameof(dataFeed));

        public void OnNext(ResponseMessage message)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"{DateTime.Now.ToShortTimeString()} - " +
                $"Received a {message.MessageReference} message with the following fields:");
            foreach (var field in message.Fields)
#if NET_CORE
                Console.WriteLine($"{field.Key}: {Encoding.UTF8.GetString(field.Value.Span)}");
#else
                Console.WriteLine($"{field.Key}: {Encoding.UTF8.GetString(field.Value.ToArray())}");
#endif
            _dataFeed.Recycle(message);
        }

        public void OnCompleted() { }

        public void OnError(Exception exception) => Console.WriteLine(exception.Message);
    }
}
```
## Data Types
There is a separate [Millistream.Streaming.DataTypes NuGet package](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Millistream.Streaming.DataTypes/) that contains managed implementations of all the data types (`String`, `Time`, `Date`, `InsRef`, `List`, `Tabular`, `Number`, `Bool`, `UInt` and `BitField`) that are used in the native streaming API. All data types are implemented as immutable value types and declared as [readonly structs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/builtin-types/struct#readonly-struct).

Unlike `Millistream.Streaming`, this package targets .NET Standard 2.1. The reason for this is that it internally uses some of the built-in .NET types' `TryParse` overloads that are only available in the .NET Core 3.x runtime. 

`Millistream.Streaming` still targets .NET Standard 1.2 and .NET Framework 4.5 and has no dependency on `Millistream.Streaming.DataTypes`.

Below is an example of how to parse the value of an `MDF_F_LASTPRICE` field that is included in a `ResponseMessage` to a `Number`:

```cs
Number? lastPrice;
IReadOnlyDictionary<Field, ReadOnlyMemory<byte>> fields = responseMessage.Fields;
if (fields.TryGetValue(Field.MDF_F_LASTPRICE, out ReadOnlyMemory<byte> value)
    && Number.TryParse(value.Span, out Number number))
{
    lastPrice = number;
}
```

Each data type contains `Parse` and `TryParse` methods that accept either a `ReadOnlySpan<char>` or a `ReadOnlySpan<byte>`. Just like with the built-in types, `Parse` throws an `ArgumentException` if the conversion fails and `TryParse` returns `false`.
